Chapter_02/Chapter_02_Notes.md, before:

## [Chapter 2 - A toy app](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app)

### [Foreword](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#cha-a_toy_app)
- Scaffold generators create a large amount of functionality automatically.
- The resulting toy app will allow us to interact with it through its URLs, giving us insight into the structure of a Rails application, including a first example of the REST architecture favored by Rails.
- It will also consist of users and their associated microposts (thus constituting a minimalist Twitter-style app).

### [2.1 Planning the application](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#sec-planning_the_application)
```
$ rails _4.2.2_ new toy_app
Bundle complete! 12 Gemfile dependencies, 55 gems now installed.
```
- [Updated gemfile to use](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#code-demo_gemfile_sqlite_version_redux)
```
$ bundle install --without production
Bundle complete! 14 Gemfile dependencies, 58 gems now installed.
```
```
https://frozen-atoll-55751.herokuapp.com/
=> "I'm a toy app. Play with me!"
```
- The typical first step when making a web application is to create a data model, which is a representation of the structures needed by our application.
- In our case, the toy app will be a microblog, with only users and short (micro)posts. Thus, we’ll begin with a model for users of the app (Section 2.1.1), and then we’ll add a model for microposts (Section 2.1.2).

### [2.1.1 A toy model for users](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#sec-modeling_demo_users)
- Users of our toy app will have:
  - A unique *integer* identifier called `id`
  - A publicly viewable `name` (of type *string*)
  - An `email` address (also a *string*) that will double as a username
- As we’ll see starting in Section 6.1.1, the label `users` corresponds to a table in a database, and the `id`, `name`, and `email` attributes are columns in that table.

### [2.1.2 A toy model for microposts](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#sec-modeling_demo_microposts)
- A micropost has only an `id` and a `content` field for the micropost’s text (of type *text*).
- There’s an additional complication, though: we want to associate each micropost with a particular user. We’ll accomplish this by recording the `user_id` of the owner of the post.
- We’ll see in Section 2.3.3 (and more fully in Chapter 11) how this `user_id` attribute allows us to succinctly express the notion that a user potentially has many associated microposts.

### [2.2 The Users resource](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#sec-demo_users_resource)
- We’ll implement the `users` data model, along with a web interface to that model. The combination will constitute a Users resource, which will allow us to think of users as objects that can be created, read, updated, and deleted (CRUD) through the web via the HTTP protocol.
- `$ rails generate scaffold User name:string email:string` => Success!
- `$ bundle exec rake db:migrate` => Success!
- Note that, in order to ensure that the command uses the version of Rake corresponding to our Gemfile, we need to run rake using `bundle exec`.
- In the Unix tradition, the `make` utility has played an important role in building executable programs from source code.
- Rake is "Ruby make", a make-like language written in Ruby. Rails uses Rake extensively, especially for the innumerable little administrative tasks necessary when developing database-backed web applications.

### [2.2.1 A user tour](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#sec-a_user_tour)
- [Stack Overflow solution to "Rails ExecJS::ProgramError in Pages#home" issue (Windows)](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/28421547/rails-execjsprogramerror-in-pageshome)
  - [Specific advice, which does indeed work](http://stackoverflow.com/a/35965674)
```
http://localhost:3000/users/1
User was successfully created.
Name: Usor
Email: usor@usor.test
```
```
User was successfully updated.
Name: User
Email: user@user.test
```
```
User was successfully created.
Name: two-ser
Email: two-ser@user.test
```
```
User was successfully destroyed.
```

### [2.2.2 MVC in action](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#sec-mvc_in_action)
- [A detailed diagram of MVC in Rails.](https://softcover.s3.amazonaws.com/636/ruby_on_rails_tutorial_3rd_edition/images/figures/mvc_detailed.png)

Here is a summary of the steps shown in the diagram:

1. The browser issues a request for the `/users` URL.
2. Rails routes `/users` to the index action in the Users controller.
3. The index action asks the `User` model to retrieve all users (`User.all`).
4. The `User` model pulls all the users from the database.
5. The `User` model returns the list of users to the controller.
6. The controller captures the users in the `@users` variable, which is passed to the index view.
7. The view uses embedded Ruby to render the page as HTML.
8. The controller passes the HTML back to the browser.

Commit message:

Add remainder of chapter 2.2.2 notes
Here's some more light reading: :book: :books: :books:

Chapter_02/Chapter_02_Notes.md, after:

## [Chapter 2 - A toy app](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app)

### [Foreword](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#cha-a_toy_app)
- Scaffold generators create a large amount of functionality automatically.
- The resulting toy app will allow us to interact with it through its URLs, giving us insight into the structure of a Rails application, including a first example of the REST architecture favored by Rails.
- It will also consist of users and their associated microposts (thus constituting a minimalist Twitter-style app).

### [2.1 Planning the application](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#sec-planning_the_application)
```
$ rails _4.2.2_ new toy_app
Bundle complete! 12 Gemfile dependencies, 55 gems now installed.
```
- [Updated gemfile to use](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#code-demo_gemfile_sqlite_version_redux)
```
$ bundle install --without production
Bundle complete! 14 Gemfile dependencies, 58 gems now installed.
```
```
https://frozen-atoll-55751.herokuapp.com/
=> "I'm a toy app. Play with me!"
```
- The typical first step when making a web application is to create a data model, which is a representation of the structures needed by our application.
- In our case, the toy app will be a microblog, with only users and short (micro)posts. Thus, we’ll begin with a model for users of the app (Section 2.1.1), and then we’ll add a model for microposts (Section 2.1.2).

### [2.1.1 A toy model for users](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#sec-modeling_demo_users)
- Users of our toy app will have:
  - A unique *integer* identifier called `id`
  - A publicly viewable `name` (of type *string*)
  - An `email` address (also a *string*) that will double as a username
- As we’ll see starting in Section 6.1.1, the label `users` corresponds to a table in a database, and the `id`, `name`, and `email` attributes are columns in that table.

### [2.1.2 A toy model for microposts](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#sec-modeling_demo_microposts)
- A micropost has only an `id` and a `content` field for the micropost’s text (of type *text*).
- There’s an additional complication, though: we want to associate each micropost with a particular user. We’ll accomplish this by recording the `user_id` of the owner of the post.
- We’ll see in Section 2.3.3 (and more fully in Chapter 11) how this `user_id` attribute allows us to succinctly express the notion that a user potentially has many associated microposts.

### [2.2 The Users resource](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#sec-demo_users_resource)
- We’ll implement the `users` data model, along with a web interface to that model. The combination will constitute a Users resource, which will allow us to think of users as objects that can be created, read, updated, and deleted (CRUD) through the web via the HTTP protocol.
- `$ rails generate scaffold User name:string email:string` => Success!
- `$ bundle exec rake db:migrate` => Success!
- Note that, in order to ensure that the command uses the version of Rake corresponding to our Gemfile, we need to run rake using `bundle exec`.
- In the Unix tradition, the `make` utility has played an important role in building executable programs from source code.
- Rake is "Ruby make", a make-like language written in Ruby. Rails uses Rake extensively, especially for the innumerable little administrative tasks necessary when developing database-backed web applications.

### [2.2.1 A user tour](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#sec-a_user_tour)
- [Stack Overflow solution to "Rails ExecJS::ProgramError in Pages#home" issue (Windows)](http://stackoverflow.com/questions/28421547/rails-execjsprogramerror-in-pageshome)
  - [Specific advice, which does indeed work](http://stackoverflow.com/a/35965674)
```
http://localhost:3000/users/1
User was successfully created.
Name: Usor
Email: usor@usor.test
```
```
User was successfully updated.
Name: User
Email: user@user.test
```
```
User was successfully created.
Name: two-ser
Email: two-ser@user.test
```
```
User was successfully destroyed.
```

### [2.2.2 MVC in action](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#sec-mvc_in_action)
- [A detailed diagram of MVC in Rails.](https://softcover.s3.amazonaws.com/636/ruby_on_rails_tutorial_3rd_edition/images/figures/mvc_detailed.png)

Here is a summary of the steps shown in the diagram:

1. The browser issues a request for the `/users` URL.
2. Rails routes `/users` to the index action in the `Users` controller.
3. The index action asks the `User` model to retrieve all users (`User.all`).
4. The `User` model pulls all the users from the database.
5. The `User` model returns the list of users to the controller.
6. The controller captures the users in the `@users` variable, which is passed to the index view.
7. The view uses embedded Ruby to render the page as HTML.
8. The controller passes the HTML back to the browser.

- [Table: RESTful routes provided by the Users resource](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#table-demo_RESTful_users)
- [REpresentational State Transfer (REST) primer](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/toy_app#aside-REST)
- Further reading: [Active Record](http://guides.rubyonrails.org/active_record_basics.html)
