Chapter 01/Chapter 01 Notes.md, before:

## [Chapter 1](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/beginning) - From zero to deploy

### Foreword
- If you already know web development, this book will quickly teach you the essentials of the Rails framework, including MVC and REST, generators, migrations, routing, and embedded Ruby.
- The emphasis throughout the tutorial is on general principles, so you will have a solid foundation no matter what kinds of web applications you want to build.
- In this first chapter, we’ll get started with Ruby on Rails by installing all the necessary software and by setting up our development environment
- In Chapter 2, we’ll make a second project, whose purpose is to demonstrate the basic workings of a Rails application.
- The rest of the tutorial focuses on developing a single large real sample application (called sample_app), writing all the code from scratch. We’ll develop the sample app using a combination of mockups, test-driven development (TDD), and integration tests.
- We’ll get started in Chapter 3 by creating static pages and then add a little dynamic content.
- We’ll take a quick detour in Chapter 4 to learn a little about the Ruby language underlying Rails.
- Then, in Chapter 5 through Chapter 10, we’ll complete the foundation for the sample application by making a site layout, a user data model, and a full registration and authentication system (including account activation and password resets).
- Finally, in Chapter 11 and Chapter 12 we’ll add microblogging and social features to make a working example site.
- When writing a Ruby on Rails tutorial, it is tempting to rely on the scaffolding approach—it’s quicker, easier, more seductive. Following the scaffolding approach risks turning you into a virtuoso script generator with little (and brittle) actual knowledge of Rails.

### [1.1.1 Prerequisites](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/beginning#sec-prerequisites)
- There are no formal prerequisites to this book—the Ruby on Rails Tutorial contains integrated tutorials not only for Rails, but also for the underlying Ruby language, the default Rails testing framework (minitest), the Unix command line, HTML, CSS, a small amount of JavaScript, and even a little SQL.
- Recommend having some HTML and programming background before starting this tutorial.

### [1.1.2 Conventions in this book](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/beginning#sec-conventions)
- Each chapter in the tutorial includes exercises, the completion of which is optional but recommended.
- In order to keep the main discussion independent of the exercises, the solutions are not generally incorporated into subsequent code listings. In the rare circumstance that an exercise solution is used subsequently, it is explicitly solved in the main text.

### [1.2.1 Development environment](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/beginning#sec-development_environment)
- The three essential components needed to develop web applications: a text editor, a filesystem navigator, and a command-line terminal.
- The “Find in Files” global search can be considered essential to navigating any large Ruby or Rails project.
- Extra Development Settings for Sublime Text that are Awesome:
```
  "tab_size": 2,
  "translate_tabs_to_spaces": true,
  "trim_trailing_white_space_on_save": true,
  "ensure_newline_at_eof_on_save": true,
  "save_on_focus_lost": true,
  "scroll_past_end": true,
```

### [1.2.2 Installing Rails](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/beginning#sec-installing_rails)
```
$ gem install rails -v 4.2.2
```
- Here the -v flag ensures that the specified version of Rails gets installed, which is important to get results consistent with this tutorial.
```
Done installing documentation for i18n, thread_safe, tzinfo, activesupport, builder, erubis, mini_portile2,
nokogiri, rails-deprecated_sanitizer, rails-dom-testing, loofah, rails-html-sanitizer, actionview, rack, rack-test,
actionpack, globalid, activejob, mime-types-data, mime-types, mail, actionmailer, activemodel, arel, activerecord,
thor, railties, concurrent-ruby, sprockets, sprockets-rails, rails after 486 seconds
31 gems installed
```

Commit message:

Add chapter 1.3 notes and hello_app init
Baltimore & Orion, Starlight Express, Wrath-Of-Conrail.

Chapter 01/Chapter 01 Notes.md, after:

## [Chapter 1](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/beginning) - From zero to deploy

### Foreword
- If you already know web development, this book will quickly teach you the essentials of the Rails framework, including MVC and REST, generators, migrations, routing, and embedded Ruby.
- The emphasis throughout the tutorial is on general principles, so you will have a solid foundation no matter what kinds of web applications you want to build.
- In this first chapter, we’ll get started with Ruby on Rails by installing all the necessary software and by setting up our development environment
- In Chapter 2, we’ll make a second project, whose purpose is to demonstrate the basic workings of a Rails application.
- The rest of the tutorial focuses on developing a single large real sample application (called sample_app), writing all the code from scratch. We’ll develop the sample app using a combination of mockups, test-driven development (TDD), and integration tests.
- We’ll get started in Chapter 3 by creating static pages and then add a little dynamic content.
- We’ll take a quick detour in Chapter 4 to learn a little about the Ruby language underlying Rails.
- Then, in Chapter 5 through Chapter 10, we’ll complete the foundation for the sample application by making a site layout, a user data model, and a full registration and authentication system (including account activation and password resets).
- Finally, in Chapter 11 and Chapter 12 we’ll add microblogging and social features to make a working example site.
- When writing a Ruby on Rails tutorial, it is tempting to rely on the scaffolding approach—it’s quicker, easier, more seductive. Following the scaffolding approach risks turning you into a virtuoso script generator with little (and brittle) actual knowledge of Rails.

### [1.1.1 Prerequisites](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/beginning#sec-prerequisites)
- There are no formal prerequisites to this book—the Ruby on Rails Tutorial contains integrated tutorials not only for Rails, but also for the underlying Ruby language, the default Rails testing framework (minitest), the Unix command line, HTML, CSS, a small amount of JavaScript, and even a little SQL.
- Recommend having some HTML and programming background before starting this tutorial.

### [1.1.2 Conventions in this book](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/beginning#sec-conventions)
- Each chapter in the tutorial includes exercises, the completion of which is optional but recommended.
- In order to keep the main discussion independent of the exercises, the solutions are not generally incorporated into subsequent code listings. In the rare circumstance that an exercise solution is used subsequently, it is explicitly solved in the main text.

### [1.2.1 Development environment](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/beginning#sec-development_environment)
- The three essential components needed to develop web applications: a text editor, a filesystem navigator, and a command-line terminal.
- The “Find in Files” global search can be considered essential to navigating any large Ruby or Rails project.
- Extra Development Settings for Sublime Text that are Awesome:
```
  "tab_size": 2,
  "translate_tabs_to_spaces": true,
  "trim_trailing_white_space_on_save": true,
  "ensure_newline_at_eof_on_save": true,
  "save_on_focus_lost": true,
  "scroll_past_end": true,
```

### [1.2.2 Installing Rails](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/beginning#sec-installing_rails)
```
$ gem install rails -v 4.2.2
```
- Here the -v flag ensures that the specified version of Rails gets installed, which is important to get results consistent with this tutorial.
```
Done installing documentation for i18n, thread_safe, tzinfo, activesupport, builder, erubis, mini_portile2,
nokogiri, rails-deprecated_sanitizer, rails-dom-testing, loofah, rails-html-sanitizer, actionview, rack,
rack-test, actionpack, globalid, activejob, mime-types-data, mime-types, mail, actionmailer, activemodel,
arel, activerecord, thor, railties, concurrent-ruby, sprockets, sprockets-rails, rails after 486 seconds
31 gems installed
```

### [1.3 The first application](https://www.railstutorial.org/book/beginning#sec-the_hello_application)
```
$ rails _4.2.2_ new hello_app
.
Bundle complete! 12 Gemfile dependencies, 55 gems now installed.
```
- This standard directory and file structure is one of the many advantages of Rails; it immediately gets you from zero to a functional (if minimal) application.
- Moreover, since the structure is common to all Rails apps, you can immediately get your bearings when looking at someone else’s code.
